# Component and Connector Views
- Usage: show how the system works and its behaviour in runtime. 
	- Particularly used for performance and availability quality attributes.
- Process view
	- Actual threads/processes of the system
- Concurrency View
	- Logical threads
- Shared Data View
	- How data is stored and accessed
- Client/server view
	- Multiple components talk to a common component for the same action
C&C Component and Connector

**Module View**
- Usage: Document a systems principals units of implementations
- Elements
	- Modules, which are implementation units of software that provide a coherent set of responsibilities
	- A class, collection of classes, layer, .dll, .jar (not really since the class is allocated to that dll)
		It should have said package.
- Relations:
	- Is part of, which defines a part/whole relationship between the sub-module - the part - and the aggregate module -- the whole.
	- Depends on, etc

Sub package, circle with arrow.

Module structures
- Decompose - module into sub modules. Pieces related to the whole
- Uses: -one module expects another to be present.
- Layer -decomposition in which there is an ordering.
- class - specialisation relationship.

Module (Static) vs component (runtime) view.
Decomposition: Client server, layered.
Client server view.
We need both to see we can have 2 tiers.


### Allocation View
- Document relationship between a systems software and its development or execution environment
- Reasoning about performance, availability, security, and safety.
- Reasoning about distributed development and allocation of work to teams.
- Reasoning about concurrent access to software versions.

- Work assignment - module to be assigned to a team
- Deployment - which processor has which thread.
- Implementation - where in source repository are the files for this module.

### Modifiability Tactics
- Modifiability tactics
- Reduce Size of a module
	- Split Module
		- If the module being modified includes a great deal of capability, the modifications costs will likely be high. Refining the module into several smaller modules should reduce the average cost of future changes.
		- May also increase complexity, but usually short term.
- Increase Cohesion
	- Increase Semantic Coherence
	- Cohesion is a measure of the relationship among the repsonsibilities of a specisfic modules
	- Increase semantic coherence, if the responsibilities a and b in a module do not server the same purpose, they should be placed in different modules. New module or moving responsibility to an existing modules. Maintain semantic coherence.
	- Abstract common services
- Reduce Coupling
- Measure of the strength of association established by a connection from one module to another. Coupling is reduced when the relationships among elemnts not in the same modules are minimized. Encapuslate, introduceses an explicit interface to a module. Includes an API and responses. 
	- Encapsulate
	- Use an intermediary
	- Restrict dependencies
	- Refactor
	- Abstract Common services
- Defer Binding