Middleware
MQTT, CORBA, DDS.

MQTT
Broker, that runs somewhere, that is connected to a network.
MQTT Clientz which a module communicates too. The mqtt client talks to the mqtt broker.
The bus is the mqtt clients and broker. 

We also have DDS which is brokerless.

SQA
- Observe that document standrrds, processes and procedures are followed as enforced by the observer
SQC
+ Validate the quality of a system, and to check whether the application adheres to the defined quality or not
Testing
+ The activities that ensures the identification of bugs errors defects in software
Verification vs defect testing
+ First goal leads to verification testing
	+ Very the requiremeents - ensure that the system does what was prescribed
	+ Postivie testing
	+ To demonstrate to the developer and tehe system customer that the software meets its requiremenets
	+ A successful test shows that the system operates as intendet.
+ Second goal leads to defect testing
	+ Ensure the system does not do other operation then what is prescribed
	+ Negative testing
	+ Designed to find these.

Advantages
+ Provide us a quick and reliable way to find weakness in the system. 
+ Structured test cases represent various scenarios in the code, and give us a quick way to explore the areas that are difficult to analyse and verify.
key process in SDLC to reduce risks and making sure the quality of product is adequate.

Levels of testing
ISTQB

Component
+ Unit, Module, COmponent
Integration 
+ Subsystem
+ integration
System
Acceptance


Component testing
+ Individual component are tested. Is to validate the each unit, stubs and drivers.
Integration Testing
+ Components combined and tested as a group, expose faults in the interaction.
Systems tessting
+ A complete integrated system is tested. The purpose of this test is to evaluate the systmes specified requirements..
Acceptance test
+ Tested for acceptability.  The purpose is to evaluate the systems compliance with the user and business reuquirements and assess wheteher its acceptable for delivery
ENtry and exit criteaia
+ In the master test plan, the entry and exit critearia is usually defined for each level of testing. Usually realted to bug severity code definition.