Software is not long list of programs statements but it has structure.
The above is a taxonomy of structural parts, but not representation of relationships between parts and does not specify the function of each part.

Taxonomy of system parts. 

Product lines:
Office suites.
Car models.

Different subsystems. 

# Quality Attributes

- The architectures current technical environment is also an important factor.
	- Standard industry practices
	- Software engineering techniques prevalent in the architect's professional community.
- Today's information systems are web-based, object-oriented, service-oriented, mobility-aware, cloud-based, social-networking-friendly, AI-enabled
	- It wasn't always so
	- It wont be so ten years from now

### Architectural process
- All of these processes that involves software development include design among their obligations.
- Architecture is a special kind of design, so architecture finds a home in each one

### A definition of software architecture
- The software architecture of a system is the set of structures needed to reason about the system, which comprise software elements, relations among them, and properties of both.

**Constraints**: Design decision with zero degrees of freedom. That is a design decision that has already been made for you.
**Assumptions**: Very important to state our assumptions.

FReq: "When the user presses the green button the Options dialog appears":
- Performance QA (Quality Attribute) annotation might describe how quickly the dialog will appear.
- Availability QA annotation might describe how often this function will fail, and how quickly it will be repaired.
- Usability QA annotation might describe how easy it is to learn this function.

### Modules and Information Hiding
