# IEEE definitions
- Architecture is the fundamental organisation of software.

Architecture is at different levels.
Stakeholder reqs, system req, system arch, software req, software arch, software detailed design, software units.


Acceptance test, first test we write, last we run.

- Every system has a software architecture.
- ~~Every system has a known software architecture~~

Example Architectural Decisions
- Decision on system decomposition
- Decision on mapping software-to-hardware
- Decision on development platform or operating system
- Decision on how to fit the subsystems together

MVC architecture and Layered architecture.

Concerns
- System decomposition, divide and conquer.
	- How do we break up into pieces
		- What functionality or behaviour to include
	- Do we have all the necessary pieces
	- do the pieces fit together
	- how the pieces interact with each other and with the runtime environment
- Cross-cutting concerns
	- Broad scoped qualities or properties of the system
	- Trade-offs among the qualities
Software architecture patterns provides a set of well known solutions proven to work for similar problems.
Conceptual integrity
- "The quality of the system where all the concepts and relationship with each other are applied in a consistent way throughout the system"
- "There is seldom so much perfection in works composed of many separate parts, upon which different heads had been employed, as in those completed by a single master" - Descartes

A camel is a horse designed by a committee.

What makes architecture good
+ There is no such thing as an inherently good or bad architecture
+ Architectures are either more or less fit for a purpose.
Consistency over Availability.
+ For instance one big unit, has small time to market, which might make it superior.
+ 

Rules of thumb
+ The architecture should be the product of a single architect or a small group of architects with an identified technical leader.
	+ The approach gives the architecture its conceptual integrity and technical consistency.
	+ This recommendation holds for agile and open source projects as well as traditional ones
	+ There should be a strong connection between the architects and the development team.
- The architect or (architecture team) should base the architecture on a prioritised list of well specified quality attribute requirements
	- Time to market could be one
- The architecture should be documented using views. The views should address the concersn of the most important stakeholders in support of the project timeline.
- The architecture should be evaluated. 