OOA 
- The purpose of a design methodology.
- Database design has three main phases: conceptual, logical and physical design

**Conceptual**, non technical, in customers domain. Not necessarily databases. Uses UML.
**Logical**, Database model, SQL database model.
**Physical**, targets specific database, MySQL.

- Få fram views som trenger for enterprise. 
-  How to use Entity-Relationship (ER) modeling to build a conceptual data model based on the data requirements of an enterprise.
- How to validate the resultant conceptual model to ensure it is a true and accurate representation of the data requirements enterprise.

- How to document the process of conceptual database design
- End-users play an integral role throughout the process of conceptual database design

# Design methodology
- A structured approach that uses procedures, techniques, tools, and documentation aids to support and facilitate the process of design.
- Conceptual, logical and physical. Merge logical and physical in our case.
- Constructing a model of the data used in an enterprise, independent of all physical considerations.
- Logical database is independent of a particular DBMS and other physical integrations
- Physical is a description of the database, relations, indexes, so on.

## Success Factors
- Work interactively with the users as much as possible
- Follow a structured methodology throughout the data modeling process.
**VELDIG VIKTIG Å FØLGE METODEN**
- Employ a data-driven approach. 
- Structural and integrity considerations
- Combine conceptualization, normalization, and transaction validation techniques into the data modeling methodology.
- Data dictionary to supplement the data model diagrams.